-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA256

# Trezor Canary

## Statements

The Trezor core developers who have digitally signed this file [1]
state the following:

1. The date of issue of this canary is January 16th, 2024.

2. The Trezor Project has never:

   a) turned over the bootloader/firmware private signing keys to anyone

   b) introduced any backdoors to their software and/or hardware

3. We plan to publish the next of these canary statements in the first
two weeks of April 2025. Special note should be taken if no new canary
is published by that time or if the list of statements changes without
plausible explanation.

## Disclaimers and notes

We would like to remind you that Trezor has been designed under the
assumption that all relevant infrastructure is permanently
compromised.  This means that we assume NO trust in any of the servers
or services which host or provide any Trezor-related data, in
particular, software updates, source code repositories, and other
downloads.

This canary scheme is not infallible. Although signing the declaration
makes it very difficult for a third party to produce arbitrary
declarations, it does not prevent them from using force or other
means, like blackmail or compromising the signers' laptops, to coerce
us to produce false declarations.

The news feeds quoted below (Proof of freshness) serves to demonstrate
that this canary could not have been created prior to the date stated.
It shows that a series of canaries was not created in advance.

This declaration is merely a best effort and is provided without any
guarantee or warranty. It is not legally binding in any way to
anybody. None of the signers should be ever held legally responsible
for any of the statements made here.

## Proof of freshness

Block at depth 879550 (2025-01-16 22:44:14 UTC) in the Bitcoin blockchain:

000000000000000000028043f561b82dd33105aad6ccd2aeccfadd34ca2b45d2

## Footnotes

[1] This file should be signed via attached PGP signatures below.

[2] Don't just trust the contents of this file blindly! Verify the
digital signatures!

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=PPw7
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
